README.md, before:

# Code Institute: Milestone Project 2

![Site Logo](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/logo.png)

![Live Website Link]( https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/)

![GitHub Repository Link](https://github.com/SantiagoYanezFerreiro/ZeroFoodWaste)

![Zero Food Waste Responsive Design](assets/images/responsivedesign.PNG)
 
Zero Food Waste is a non-profit association whose mission is to contribute to reducing Global Food Waste. 

For this purpose 1)it allows companies like restaurants and supermarkets that want to donate food to get in touch through it with charities and other organisations that could use this food. 
2) Offers information and a newsletter to raise awareness about this problem and inform users about related events.

The website provides general statistics and information about Worldwide Food Waste and their future predictions and a quiz to keep users engaged while learning. Also uses the Google Maps API to display the countries that waste the most food globally. 
The who are we? Page contains info about the company; its history, mission & values and their current & future actions to fight this problem.

## User Experience

### Visitors Goals
Understand the main purpose of the site and get to know the company.

Easily navigate the site 

Check Social Media Sites to know if the organisation is reliable.

Get Quizzed about this topic and learn new info in an enjoyable way (Quiz, Page). 

Be able to contact the company to donate (businesses) or receive donated food (charities). 

Get Information about the organisation; it history, accomplishments and future plans. 

Be able to reach out Zero Food Waste through a form for collaborations and general queries.

Have the option to sign up for the newsletter to receive invitations to special events and tips about how to reduce Food Waste. 


### Organisation Goals:
•	Increase Brand Awareness and Brand Image.

•	Get as many entities and people as possible to contact the company for exchanges of food, possible collaborations, and events. 

•	Grant access to visitors to relevant Food Waste statistics that will raise their awareness about the topic and contribute to reduce their ecological print.


## Design

### Colour Scheme

The two main colours used are White and Green.

### Typography

The Lato font is the main font of the website with Arial and sans-seriff as fallback. I opted for Lato because it's a sans-seriff that looks stylish and is easy to read.

### Imagery

I used a lot of Food Waste/Food Images, mainly to make the website look better and as background for the content.

## Wireframes

### Home Page
   
![Home Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframehome.PNG)



### Home Page Mobile Layout

![Home Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframehomemobile.PNG)



### What's at stake

![Join Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframewhat'satstake.PNG)



### What's at Stake Mobile Layout

![Join Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframewhat'satstakemobile.PNG)
   


### Quiz Page
   
![Classes Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframequiz.PNG)



### Quiz Page Mobile Layout

![Classes Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframequizmobile.PNG)



### About Us Page

![Contact Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframecontact.PNG)



### About Us Mobile Layout

![Contact Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframecontactmobile.PNG)



### Contact Page

![Contact Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframeaboutus.PNG)



### Contact Page Mobile Layout

![Contact Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframeaboutusmobile.PNG)



## Features

•	**Header Logo** – Present on every page, clicking on it allow users to access the home page.

•	**Header Navigation Bar** – Allows visitors to easily navigate all the website's pages and access the desired section/information.

•	**Footer** – Social Media Links and logo to go back to the home page.

•	**Informational Blocks** – Relevant Food Waste Statistics.

•	**Entity Info** – The section about us features diverse info about the organisation.

•	**Contact Form** - Allows visitors to collaborate and/or subscribe to the newsletter.

•	**Sections Menu** - At the bottom of several pages there is a menu of possible actions to take. The aim of it is to spend more time on the site and ultimately get more donations/newsletter subscriptions.

•	**Quiz** - Tests visitor knowledge and gives them a score based on their number of correct answers.

•	**Google Maps Section** - Shows the biggest worldwide contributors to the Food Waste problem.


## Features to Implement in the future

• An Events Page with external and internal events visitors can attend (Conferences, Meetups, Fairs, etc).

• Extend it to Waste Recycle and facilitate ways for people to recycle more.

• A Personalised Section with Log In/Sign Up functions. There businesses can publish ads about Food they want to donate and get in touch with charities/NGOs.

• Create the newsletter and automate email sending.

## Technologies Used

### Languages Used

• HTML5

• CSS3 

• JavaScript 

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

•	GitPod – Used as the Development IDE.

•	Bootstrap4 layout to make the form responsive, used a CDN to include it in the project.

•	FontAwesome: Great Icons Resource.

•	Auto-Prefixer: Extension that adds all necessary extensions to the webite so that it works properly on all major browsers.

•	Unsplash: Website that offers high quality free images.

•	Realfavicongenerator: Used to create the Favicon.

•	FreeLogoDesign: Tool used to design the logo.

•	Pencil: Great Wireframing Software.

•	EmailJS: To make the form work and receive visitors requests.


## Testing
The code was validated with the W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services to look for syntax errors.
The website passed both tests succesfully with no errors at all.

### High Level Test Classes
![High Level Test Classes](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/HighLevelTestCases.PNG)

### User Story Testing 
#### Visitors Goals

• Be able to contact the company to donate (businesses) or receive donated food (charities). 
It can be done through the form by selecting the preferred option. Visitors can also send a message with it.

• Get exposed to relevant information that raise awareness of the Food Waste problem and motivate people to waste less food. 
The city is full of related information, users can get quizzed about it and also get additional info through the newsletter.

• Get Quizzed about this topic and learn new info in an enjoyable way (Quiz, Page). 
The quiz section allows user to do it getting feedback through their score.

•  Get Information about the organisation; its history, accomplishments and future plans. 
All of it displayed in the About Us section.

•  Be able to reach out Zero Food Waste through a form for collaborations and general queries. 
Can be done through the main form.

•  Have the option to sign up for the newsletter to receive invitations to special events and tips about how to reduce Food Waste.
Same as previous user story.


### Test Results
![Test Results](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/TestResults.PNG)

## Issues & Problems found during Testing

#### Further Testing

The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Explorer, Opera and Microsoft Edge.

The website was also viewed on desktop, tablets and several phone devices (Huawei, Iphone, Xiaomi).

All links were double checked to ensure they work properly.

Friends and family members were also asked to check the site to give feedback and detect errors on it.


#### Known Bugs  & Problems 
•	It took me a while to format properly the containers. These two pages also didn't look too good until I implemented a parallax effect.


## Deployment

### GitHub Pages
The project was developed using GitPod, committed to git and pushed to GitHub. It was then deployed with Github pages from its GitHub repository following these steps:

•	Log in into GitHub.

•	Select the repository and open settings.

•	Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section and click Master Branch. With this, the website is deployed.

•	Go to the GitHub pages section to get the website link.

### Forking

### Cloning

•	Type ‘cd’ in the terminal followed by the desired directory name where 
it will get cloned.

•	Click on ‘Code’ (the green drop-down button on the top of the page).

•	Copy the last link and type and type ‘git clone’ followed by the copied name.

## Credits

## Code

Used the Bootstrap library to make the site responsive. Also took advantages of its built-in classes, for exampple to make the nav menu responsive.

## Content
•	Social Media Icons are from Font Awesome.

•	Bootstrap Navbar Documentation helped me to create the navigation menu.


## Media
•	Pictures are from Unsplash.com, Pexels and Google Images.
•	The favicon was created using the resource ![Favicon](https://realfavicongenerator.net/)


## Acknowledgements
•	I would like to thank my mentor Narender Singh, who was of great help in this project and was always really willing to help me and giving me useful feedback to get the most out of my project.
•	I checked projects from other students to get an idea of the scope of the project and as inspiration for my project.

## Disclaimer
This is a fictional company and was created as my MS2 Code Institute Project.

Commit message:

included modifications from the Original Wireframes sections

README.md, after:

# Code Institute: Milestone Project 2

![Site Logo](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/logo.png)

![Live Website Link]( https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/)

![GitHub Repository Link](https://github.com/SantiagoYanezFerreiro/ZeroFoodWaste)

![Zero Food Waste Responsive Design](assets/images/responsivedesign.PNG)
 
Zero Food Waste is a non-profit association whose mission is to contribute to reducing Global Food Waste. 

For this purpose 1)it allows companies like restaurants and supermarkets that want to donate food to get in touch through it with charities and other organisations that could use this food. 
2) Offers information and a newsletter to raise awareness about this problem and inform users about related events.

The website provides general statistics and information about Worldwide Food Waste and their future predictions and a quiz to keep users engaged while learning. Also uses the Google Maps API to display the countries that waste the most food globally. 
The who are we? Page contains info about the company; its history, mission & values and their current & future actions to fight this problem.

## User Experience

### Visitors Goals
Understand the main purpose of the site and get to know the company.

Easily navigate the site 

Check Social Media Sites to know if the organisation is reliable.

Get Quizzed about this topic and learn new info in an enjoyable way (Quiz, Page). 

Be able to contact the company to donate (businesses) or receive donated food (charities). 

Get Information about the organisation; it history, accomplishments and future plans. 

Be able to reach out Zero Food Waste through a form for collaborations and general queries.

Have the option to sign up for the newsletter to receive invitations to special events and tips about how to reduce Food Waste. 


### Organisation Goals:
•	Increase Brand Awareness and Brand Image.

•	Get as many entities and people as possible to contact the company for exchanges of food, possible collaborations, and events. 

•	Grant access to visitors to relevant Food Waste statistics that will raise their awareness about the topic and contribute to reduce their ecological print.


## Design

### Colour Scheme

The two main colours used are White and Green.

### Typography

The Lato font is the main font of the website with Arial and sans-seriff as fallback. I opted for Lato because it's a sans-seriff that looks stylish and is easy to read.

### Imagery

I used a lot of Food Waste/Food Images, mainly to make the website look better and as background for the content.

## Wireframes

### Home Page
   
![Home Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframehome.PNG)



### Home Page Mobile Layout

![Home Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframehomemobile.PNG)



### What's at stake

![Join Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframewhat'satstake.PNG)



### What's at Stake Mobile Layout

![Join Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframewhat'satstakemobile.PNG)
   


### Quiz Page
   
![Classes Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframequiz.PNG)



### Quiz Page Mobile Layout

![Classes Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframequizmobile.PNG)



### About Us Page

![Contact Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframecontact.PNG)



### About Us Mobile Layout

![Contact Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframecontactmobile.PNG)



### Contact Page

![Contact Page](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframeaboutus.PNG)



### Contact Page Mobile Layout

![Contact Page Mobile](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/wireframeaboutusmobile.PNG)


### Modifications from the Original Wireframes

I thought it was better to speak about general information about the company like its mission, history and so on in a separate section called about us.
This way it won't deviate the attention of visitors from the main purposes of the page and the website will be better structured.


Prefered to create a quiz that starts after pressing a button instead of ocupying a lot of space by displaying all questions on the quiz starting page vertically.
I think it looks way better and visitors only see the most relevant part of the quiz for them for the moment.


I though it was better to include info about the company partners in the about page instead of in the contact page.




## Features

•	**Header Logo** – Present on every page, clicking on it allow users to access the home page.

•	**Header Navigation Bar** – Allows visitors to easily navigate all the website's pages and access the desired section/information.

•	**Footer** – Social Media Links and logo to go back to the home page.

•	**Informational Blocks** – Relevant Food Waste Statistics.

•	**Entity Info** – The section about us features diverse info about the organisation.

•	**Contact Form** - Allows visitors to collaborate and/or subscribe to the newsletter.

•	**Sections Menu** - At the bottom of several pages there is a menu of possible actions to take. The aim of it is to spend more time on the site and ultimately get more donations/newsletter subscriptions.

•	**Quiz** - Tests visitor knowledge and gives them a score based on their number of correct answers.

•	**Google Maps Section** - Shows the biggest worldwide contributors to the Food Waste problem.


## Features to Implement in the future

• An Events Page with external and internal events visitors can attend (Conferences, Meetups, Fairs, etc).

• Extend it to Waste Recycle and facilitate ways for people to recycle more.

• A Personalised Section with Log In/Sign Up functions. There businesses can publish ads about Food they want to donate and get in touch with charities/NGOs.

• Create the newsletter and automate email sending.

## Technologies Used

### Languages Used

• HTML5

• CSS3 

• JavaScript 

### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

•	GitPod – Used as the Development IDE.

•	Bootstrap4 layout to make the form responsive, used a CDN to include it in the project.

•	FontAwesome: Great Icons Resource.

•	Auto-Prefixer: Extension that adds all necessary extensions to the webite so that it works properly on all major browsers.

•	Unsplash: Website that offers high quality free images.

•	Realfavicongenerator: Used to create the Favicon.

•	FreeLogoDesign: Tool used to design the logo.

•	Pencil: Great Wireframing Software.

•	EmailJS: To make the form work and receive visitors requests.


## Testing
The code was validated with the W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services to look for syntax errors.
The website passed both tests succesfully with no errors at all.

### High Level Test Classes
![High Level Test Classes](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/HighLevelTestCases.PNG)

### User Story Testing 
#### Visitors Goals

• Be able to contact the company to donate (businesses) or receive donated food (charities). 
It can be done through the form by selecting the preferred option. Visitors can also send a message with it.

• Get exposed to relevant information that raise awareness of the Food Waste problem and motivate people to waste less food. 
The city is full of related information, users can get quizzed about it and also get additional info through the newsletter.

• Get Quizzed about this topic and learn new info in an enjoyable way (Quiz, Page). 
The quiz section allows user to do it getting feedback through their score.

•  Get Information about the organisation; its history, accomplishments and future plans. 
All of it displayed in the About Us section.

•  Be able to reach out Zero Food Waste through a form for collaborations and general queries. 
Can be done through the main form.

•  Have the option to sign up for the newsletter to receive invitations to special events and tips about how to reduce Food Waste.
Same as previous user story.


### Test Results
![Test Results](https://santiagoyanezferreiro.github.io/ZeroFoodWaste/assets/images/TestResults.PNG)

## Issues & Problems found during Testing

#### Further Testing

The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Explorer, Opera and Microsoft Edge.

The website was also viewed on desktop, tablets and several phone devices (Huawei, Iphone, Xiaomi).

All links were double checked to ensure they work properly.

Friends and family members were also asked to check the site to give feedback and detect errors on it.


#### Known Bugs  & Problems 
•	It took me a while to format properly the containers. These two pages also didn't look too good until I implemented a parallax effect.


## Deployment

### GitHub Pages
The project was developed using GitPod, committed to git and pushed to GitHub. It was then deployed with Github pages from its GitHub repository following these steps:

•	Log in into GitHub.

•	Select the repository and open settings.

•	Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section and click Master Branch. With this, the website is deployed.

•	Go to the GitHub pages section to get the website link.

### Forking

### Cloning

•	Type ‘cd’ in the terminal followed by the desired directory name where 
it will get cloned.

•	Click on ‘Code’ (the green drop-down button on the top of the page).

•	Copy the last link and type and type ‘git clone’ followed by the copied name.

## Credits

## Code

Used the Bootstrap library to make the site responsive. Also took advantages of its built-in classes, for exampple to make the nav menu responsive.

## Content
•	Social Media Icons are from Font Awesome.

•	Bootstrap Navbar Documentation helped me to create the navigation menu.


## Media
•	Pictures are from Unsplash.com, Pexels and Google Images.
•	The favicon was created using the resource ![Favicon](https://realfavicongenerator.net/)


## Acknowledgements
•	I would like to thank my mentor Narender Singh, who was of great help in this project and was always really willing to help me and giving me useful feedback to get the most out of my project.
•	I checked projects from other students to get an idea of the scope of the project and as inspiration for my project.

## Disclaimer
This is a fictional company and was created as my MS2 Code Institute Project.
